- [Instructor] So we spent quite a bit of time building code
around the controller
and putting a few little snippets here and there.
Now it's time to actually do work in our controller.
And this is sort of the culmination
of everything we've been building up to
so we can show you how the controller would work
in the real world.
So let's jump into our IDs.
So I want you to jump to your controller.
Let's go down to our reconcile method and we're going to start
after we've added our finalizer when the timestamp is zero.
All right.
So if instance.status.state is pending.
Now why is this important?
The only time we want to do a creation is when it's pending.
No other state should ever trigger a new creation
of our bucket, right?
That's pretty straightforward logic.
So only if we're pending.
Now we're going to do an info message.
It just basically says starting to create resources
and I would never put log info messages at this granularity
but for this purpose, it's fine.
So we're going to do an error assignment.
R.createresources.
And this is the method that we created earlier
that does all of the creation of our resource
and our config map.
Now, if the error is not empty, so if that update fails,
here we want to set our status to error.
And the reason that this is important is
because we don't want to continual propagation
and execution of this because it's in pending state
but we know we're going to get an error
and then we just keep doing the same trivial behavior
over and over.
So let's go ahead and set it to error
that way it'll never execute again
because we've guarded against that.
And since this is just a status update,
we can do an update of our status.
So if this happens, we're going to go ahead and do that.
Let's log this error out
and we'll simply say error creating bucket.
Although it could be much more than that, right?
It could be the config map or something else
but for now that's fine.
And in this case, we'll go ahead and return our ctrl.result
and our error.
Excellent.
So now we will create the instance if we are pending.
As long as we don't get an error state,
everything is good to go.
Otherwise we will set the state to error
on the CR and leave it alone.
Now, down here in our delete flow
we've got a little bit different.
Remember I said to keep the finalizer after you're done.
And we're going to do that here.
So once again, we will do an error assignment
and we're going to do that to our delete resource method.
And we will pass the context and our instance.
And if our error does not equal nil,
we are once again going
to set our instant state equal to error.
We will once again update our status.
And then we will log this
and just say error deleting bucket.
And we will return our control result.error.
And now we can let our finalizer run.
So now we're creating a bucket
or we're deleting a bucket based on the flow.
Let's jump into our terminal.
We're going to do a few steps here
to kind of get ourselves ready.
So the first thing I want to do
is I want to do a make undeploy.
I want to get everything out of the environment.
And I'm doing this just to make sure
that everything is clear and clean.
We're going to get some errors
because things aren't found and that's fine.
What we actually pulled out of there
that I care about is we pulled out our CRD.
So that way now if I do a make,
we're going to go ahead and make our manifests as well.
And we will do a make install.
And let's put everything back out there
that we need to run this locally.
Now we can run it.
So make run.
We'll let this do its thing and start running.
Excellent. We're up and running.
So before we get too deep,
there's a few things that I want to do.
The first thing I'm going to do is an aws s3api.
You can do this through the console
if you feel more comfortable looking at your buckets.
But I'm just going to do a list buckets command.
And then we will see that we've got one bucket out there.
It's called an instructor aws01.
Great. So now let's apply our CR.
Again, we're going to use one in our config samples.
And now very quickly, let's take a look at that.
So you'll see it's been created.
So it's gone through the pending, creating
and created state in the time that we've typed this.
If we jump over to our running console, you'll see
that we get some info messages that we've created resources
and things like that.
Let's validate by I calling our S3 call and there it is.
We've got a bucket that has been created based on our CR
and we can do one more thing here.
You also see that we've got a config map
and we could describe that if we wanted to
to make sure that everything looks good.
So let's describe our config map
and there's all of our data.
So now our next step is we are going to do a delete
of our object store.
Now let's take a look first of all at S3.
Our bucket is gone.
We can look for our config map, they're gone.
And finally, we can look for our object store and it's gone.
That is exactly what we expected our system to do.
But now we can attach a bucket
with a config map describing it
to a name space by simply applying ACR.
And that's the benefit of the operator.
Stay tuned next and I'll show you how to deploy this
using Kubebuilder and give you some ideas
on how to make this production ready.